README.adoc, before:

= Cache Stampede Solution Benchmark in Ruby on Rails: `race_condition_ttl` vs probabilistic early expiration

This project is a benchmark to compare the performance between `race_condition_ttl` and probabilistic early expiration to solve the cache stampede problem.

The probabilistic early expiration approach is a technique to avoid the cache stampede by expiring the cache before the TTL based on the paper, https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~avattani/papers/cache_stampede.pdf[Optimal Probabilistic Cache Stampede Prevention].
This technique is implemented in the method `ActiveSupport::Cache::Store#x_fetch` in the file link:lib/active_support_cache_store_extension.rb[`lib/active_support_cache_store_extension.rb`]

== Benchmark

The following command runs the benchmark for 1 hour and generates stacked histograms comparing stampede size between `fetch` and `x_fetch`:

[source,sh]
----
docker-compose run --name benchmark -e TIMEOUT=3600 ruby \
  rake output/200k_histogram.png output/300k_histogram.png
docker cp benchmark:/app/output .
----

Here is the result of the benchmark on my machine (MacOS Sonoma Version 14.2.1/2.4 GHz 8-Core Intel Core i9/32 GB 2667 MHz DDR4):

image::images/200k_histogram.png[]

image::images/300k_histogram.png[]


As the histograms show, `x_fetch` has a smaller stampede size than `fetch` in both cases.
The higher the RPM, the more significant the difference.


== Environment Variables

You can tune the benchmark by setting the following environment variables:

|===
| Name | Description | Default

| TTL
| THe time to live of the cache
| 15

| REGENERATION_TIME
| The time it takes to regenerate the cache
| 1

| NUMBER_OF_THREADS
| The number of threads to use.
Each thread is a infinite loop that calls the method `fetch` until `TIMEOUT` is reached.
| (number of cores)

| TIMEOUT
| The time to run the benchmark
| 60

| REDIS_URL
| The redis URL
| redis://localhost

| FETCH_METHOD
| Enum of `x_fetch` or `fetch`.

`fetch` is the method which uses `race_condition_ttl` and `x_fetch` is the method which uses probabilistic early expiration.
| x_fetch

| RPM
| The number of `FETCH_METHOD` calls per minute
| x_fetch
|===

Commit message:

docs: add the paper in case of the link is dead

README.adoc, after:

= Cache Stampede Solution Benchmark in Ruby on Rails: `race_condition_ttl` vs probabilistic early expiration

This project is a benchmark to compare the performance between `race_condition_ttl` and probabilistic early expiration to solve the cache stampede problem.

The probabilistic early expiration approach is a technique to avoid the cache stampede by expiring the cache before the TTL based on the paper, link:assets/cache_stampede.pdf[Optimal Probabilistic Cache Stampede Prevention].
This technique is implemented in the method `ActiveSupport::Cache::Store#x_fetch` in the file link:lib/active_support_cache_store_extension.rb[`lib/active_support_cache_store_extension.rb`]

== Benchmark

The following command runs the benchmark for 1 hour and generates stacked histograms comparing stampede size between `fetch` and `x_fetch`:

[source,sh]
----
docker-compose run --name benchmark -e TIMEOUT=3600 ruby \
  rake output/200k_histogram.png output/300k_histogram.png
docker cp benchmark:/app/output .
----

Here is the result of the benchmark on my machine (MacOS Sonoma Version 14.2.1/2.4 GHz 8-Core Intel Core i9/32 GB 2667 MHz DDR4):

image::assets/200k_histogram.png[]

image::assets/300k_histogram.png[]


As the histograms show, `x_fetch` has a smaller stampede size than `fetch` in both cases.
The higher the RPM, the more significant the difference.


== Environment Variables

You can tune the benchmark by setting the following environment variables:

|===
| Name | Description | Default

| TTL
| THe time to live of the cache
| 15

| REGENERATION_TIME
| The time it takes to regenerate the cache
| 1

| NUMBER_OF_THREADS
| The number of threads to use.
Each thread is a infinite loop that calls the method `fetch` until `TIMEOUT` is reached.
| (number of cores)

| TIMEOUT
| The time to run the benchmark
| 60

| REDIS_URL
| The redis URL
| redis://localhost

| FETCH_METHOD
| Enum of `x_fetch` or `fetch`.

`fetch` is the method which uses `race_condition_ttl` and `x_fetch` is the method which uses probabilistic early expiration.
| x_fetch

| RPM
| The number of `FETCH_METHOD` calls per minute
| x_fetch
|===
